---
title: This title doesn't get used in the url or in the blog post list
LinkTitle: Sloths
slug: sloths
date: 2024-02-01T00:00:00Z
tags:
  - animals
keywords:
  - sloth
params:
  author: travis
  thumbnail: sloth.webp
  cover: sloth.webp
  featured: true
---

_From Wikipedia_

Sloths are a [Neotropical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neotropical_realm)
group of xenarthran mammals constituting the suborder Folivora, including the
extant arboreal tree sloths and extinct terrestrial ground sloths. Noted for
their slowness of movement, tree sloths spend most of their lives hanging upside
down in the trees of the tropical rainforests of South America and Central
America. Sloths are considered to be most closely related to anteaters, together
making up the xenarthran order Pilosa. Sloths are a Neotropical group of
xenarthran mammals constituting the suborder Folivora, including the extant
arboreal tree sloths and extinct terrestrial ground sloths. Noted for their
slowness of movement, tree sloths spend most of their lives hanging upside down
in the trees of the tropical rainforests of South America and Central America.
Sloths are considered to be most closely related to anteaters, together making
up the xenarthran order Pilosa.

{{< blog-img sloth.webp >}}_Bradypus variegatus_, a three-toed sloth{{< /blog-img >}}

Sloths are so named because of their very low metabolism and deliberate
movements. Their slowness permits their low-energy diet of leaves and avoids
detection by predatory hawks and cats that hunt by sight. Sloths are almost
helpless on the ground but are able to swim. [^1] The shaggy coat has grooved
hair that is host to symbiotic green algae which camouflage the animal in the
trees and provide it nutrients. The algae also nourish sloth moths, some species
of which exist solely on sloths. [^2]

[^1]:
    https://web.archive.org/web/20171201031042/http://slothconservation.com/about-the-sloth/overview/

[^2]:
    https://io9.gizmodo.com/the-strange-symbiosis-between-sloths-and-moths-1506856445

## Anatomy

Sloths can be 60 to 80 cm (24 to 31 in) long and, depending on the species,
weigh from 3.6 to 7.7 kg (7.9 to 17.0 lb). Two-toed sloths are slightly larger
than three-toed sloths. Sloths have long limbs and rounded heads with tiny ears.
Three-toed sloths also have stubby tails about 5 to 6 cm (2.0 to 2.4 in) long.

## Activity

Their limbs are adapted for hanging and grasping, not for supporting their
weight. Muscle mass makes up only 25 to 30 percent of their total body weight.
Most other mammals have a muscle mass that makes up 40 to 45 percent of their
total body weight. Their specialised hands and feet have long, curved claws to
allow them to hang upside down from branches without effort, and are used to
drag themselves along the ground, since they cannot walk. On three-toed sloths,
the arms are 50 percent longer than the legs.
